---
categories:
- people
date: 2016-06-18T00:00:00Z
description: Most of us suck at managing our passwords. But we don't have to. Read
  on to find out how to be better and more secure.
tags:
- 1password
- database
- formula
- generate
- keepass
- lastpass
- password
- passwordsX security
title: 123456
url: /123456
---

We suck at security. At least, that's what I notice whenever there's word of another breach. Not only do we keep re-using passwords across websites, we keep sticking to easy to remember or just **plain stupid ones** too. If we have a look at the top password in the LinkedIn breach, the most used passwords are `123456` with `linkedin` taking up second place and `password` close behind (<a href="https://blog.korelogic.com/blog/2016/05/19/linkedin_passwords_2016" target="_blank">source</a>). Seriously? I hope everyone realizes there’s not even a need for breaches to get access to those accounts. Now that we know this, what can you do to better manage your online presence?

Before I used to work in IT, I had a formula that allowed me to create distinct passwords per website. **I never had to remember the password**, I was able to re-recreate the password using the formula with the site or service as context. While I still consider this an acceptable approach, it’s not really future proof. Some services send you a password reset after a few too many retries which results in having more than 1 formula. After a few years you can’t remember which formula goes where, which is incredibly annoying. So there has to be a better way.

Not wanting to have to deal with having to remember passwords, I moved to services like <a href="https://lastpass.com/" target="_blank">LastPass</a> or <a href="https://1password.com/" target="_blank">1Password</a>. They have strong random password generators and browser plugins that allow you to log in to sites without having to enter the password yourself. This work really well and **reduces the hassle** of having to remember anything. But, there’s 1 problem. I don’t trust anyone in IT. Here I am, having to rely on their security to manage mine. On top of that, most of these services aren’t free either. Bummer.

So where am I today? I use a KeePass database to manage my passwords (no link due to no https ¯\_(ツ)\_/¯). You can have the same benefits of using LastPass or 1Password using a ton of plugins, but you host it yourself. A few weeks ago there was a bit of commotion about the lack of https when polling for updates in KeePass. If you decide to go for this, **make sure you are on version 2.34 or higher**. But, given the lack of decent UI, I am using <a href="https://keeweb.info/" target="_blank">KeeWeb</a> as the software to manage the .kdbx databases. I really dislike that old crappy OSS look and feel of KeePass.

My KeePass database is secured with a password and key file. To sync the databases between the devices I use, I added it to a cloud service. And to make sure that people do not get access to my database when the hosting service gets breached, I added the key file to another cloud service. The two only meet on my devices, never online. Paranoia? Not really, just making sure.

The passwords I generate are > 12 characters and contain completely random stuff. **I couldn’t even remember them if I wanted to**. And that’s the point entirely. Don’t remember your passwords, make sure you don’t have to by using the tools at your disposal.

And please enable 2 factor authentication (2FA) where possible. It's easy to setup and can save you ass in case breaches do happen. I use a <a href="https://www.yubico.com/products/yubikey-hardware/fido-u2f-security-key/" target="_blank">Yubikey</a> to secure my access to Google, Github and Dropbox. I can only hope others follow shortly as it does away with the hassle of traditional 2FA systems.

In the end you can never prevent breaches. But you can **make sure your ass is covered** as much as possible.